---
title: 'Customer satisfaction survey on florist shops 2021.  
JCSI (Japanese Customer Satisfaction Index) custom survey. Funded by the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture (MAFF).'
date: 2021-10-19
permalink: /posts/2021/11/blog-post-4/ 
tags:
  - Flower shop
  - Customer satisfaction survey
  - Service quality　
  - JCSI (Japanese Customer Satisfaction Index) 
  - causal model
  - customer satisfaction index

---

___
Customer satisfaction survey on Japanese Flower shops 2021.  
Funded by the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF).  
JCSI (Japanese Customer Satisfaction Index) custom survey.  
  
● Key findings  
(1) Hibiya Kadan boasts a remarkably high standard of customer satisfaction, scored 80.7 out of 100 points, which is on par with top service companies such as leading luxury city hotels.  
(2) There may be further market opportunities in the relatively underexplored area between specialty stores and mass retailers.  From the perspective of customer satisfaction, Aoyama Flower Market (AFM) provides a successful example of eclectic model.  Its CS distribution shows bimodal peaks: one consists of fans of first tier CS (more than 20%) who appreciate quality and service skills, and another is the convenience-driven, third to fourth tiers (out of 10 classes) with decent level of satisfaction.  
(3) At mass retailers, it is estimated that flowers for daily altarage offerings accounts for 30-40%.  For supermarket users (like Aeon) , seasonality is also important.  Their merchandise and service lack in emotional impetus to boost CS, as is shown by Delight Index.  Quality perception has much room for improvement.  
(4) At any given chain store, around 20% of customers say that they felt dissatisfied in some way during the last 1 year of purchase experience.  While 5.6% of customers express their discontent, 16% remain silent.  Efforts must be made to ease their frustration at the earliest possible stage, and system for dealing with complaints (for example, vaselife guarantee) should be put in place.  
  
● Survey overview  
Carried out by the Council for the Vase-life Improvement of Japanese Flowers.  
Commissioned to the Japan Productivity Center's Service Productivity & Innovation for Growth Council (SPRING), which administers the JCSI. JCSI is one of the largest consumer surveys in Japan across service industries. Their model is based on the US ACSI (American Customer Satisfaction Index).  
- Companies surveyed: 2 flower specialty shops (Aoyama Flower Market and Hibiya Kadan) and 4 mass retailers (flower sections of Cainz, Aeon, Yaoko and Coop Mirai)  
- Respondents : A total of 1611 customers in their 20s to 70s, who have purchased at least twice in the last year at one of the 6 companies.  
- Method: Internet survey  
- Key contents: CS index, delight & disappointment index, service quality, dissatisfaction, recovery evaluation, word-of-mouth, reasons for use, good points. Goods purchased, purchase frequency.  

● Citation  
Aoki, Kyoko (2021). The structure of customer satisfaction: 2021 JCSI custom survey on Flower shops. Japan Flower Vase Life Improvement Council (MPS Japan).  
___

## Survey overview  

### Objectives: 
This survey was planned with the aim of obtaining an objective overview of the service levels of major flower retailers from the customer's perspectives.   Such marketing data for benchmarking has been scarce for the Japanese flower industry, which is dominated by small and medium-sized entities.   

### Funding:  
This project was entirely funded by a grant from the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF).  

### Framework and modelling:  
To enable cross-sectoral comparisons across major service industries, a "custom" survey was conducted in cooperation with the Japan Productivity Center, using the framework of the Japanese Customer Satisfaction Index (JCSI), one of the largest consumer surveys in Japan.  Note that this flower shop survey is not an "official" JCSI survey.   
  
The JCSI is based on the ACSI (American Customer Satisfaction Index).  The ACSI was developed at the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business, and has been used by major service companies to enhance the service quality and operations.  Its CS causal model is robust and employed around the world including the JCSI. 
Large-scale, industry-wise, third party customer satisfaction surveys of flower shops, especially on real, brick-and-mortal florists, are almost unheard of worldwide, possibly the first of its kind. 

### Japanese Flower retailers:  
Six chain stores were selected.  florist or flower section of mass mass merchandiser chain store.  
- Flower specialty stores: Aoyama Flower Market (AFM) and Hibiya Kadan  
- Home centre: Cainz  
- Supermarkets: Aeon, Yaoko and Coop-Mirai  

### Respondents:  
A total of 1611 men and women in their 20s to 70s living in Japan, who have made purchases at least twice during the recent 1 year at one of the 6 companies surveyed.  

### Date and method:  
- Friday 26 February to Wednesday 3 March 2021  
- Method: Internet survey  

### Key contents:  
Customer satisfaction indices, customer delight & disappointment indices, service quality evaluation, dissatisfaction and claim recovery evaluation, word-of-mouth response (positive/negative), reasons for use, good points, evaluation of corona infection prevention measures.  Goods purchased, purchase frequency, average customer spend.  

### Key Customer Satisfaction Index (causal model) 
Main CS indices consist of 6 factors, each on a scale on which 100 is perfection:  
(1) Customer expectations -->   
(2) Perceived quality + (3) Perceived value (cost performance, or value for monetary / temporal costs)  -->  
(4) Customer satisfaction -->   
(5) Recommendation intent (Word of Mouth)  + (6) Customer loyalty (repeat purchase, increased frequency / width of purchase)  

### Note:  
It should be noted that the results of this survey cannot be regarded as representative of the flower retail industry, as the structure of flower retailing sector is highly diverse. The survey does not aim to rank individual companies. It was designed to highlight leading chains with well known practices and to present data in the hope that it will contribute to the long-term public interests, including flower shops and the flower industry.

### Analysis and reporting: Kyoko Aoki  





___
### Citation  
You are free to cite the results of the survey. Please note that this is not an official JCSI survey and that use of the results for corporate publicity is not permitted.  
When quoting, please indicate the source.  
Recommended citation: Aoki, Kyoko (2021). *The structure of customer satisfaction: 2021 JCSI Japanese Customer Satisfaction Index custom survey on flower shops.* Japan Flower Vase Life Improvement Council. 
[Link_ CS survey report (in Japanese)](https://github.com/gerdaresearch/flower-retailer-customer-satisfaction-survey2021-Japan/blob/main/JCSI_consumer_satisfaction_survey_REPORT_flower_retailer_2021.pdf)  Please machine-translate.  
[Link_ Questionnaire, GT table (in Japanese)](https://github.com/gerdaresearch/flower-retailer-customer-satisfaction-survey2021-Japan/blob/main/JCSI_consumer_satisfaction_survey_TABLE_flower_retailer_2021.pdf)  Please machine-translate.  
### DISCLAIMER: The author reserves the right not to be responsible for any liability claims regarding damage caused by the use of any information provided.  
___
